
CASTEP has a built-in library of pseudopotentials which is usually updated each release. We refer to CASTEP's build-in pseudopotentials as on-the-fly generated (or OTFG).  The default OTFG pseudopotentials are accurate ultrasoft pseudopotentials. These are used if species_pot block is not defined in the cell file - or an empty block is given
```
%block species_pot
%endblock species_pot
```

For preliminary investigations and high-throughput calculations you might want to choose the QC5 set of ultrasoftpotentials which are faster, but slightly less accurate than the default set. These are designed to give converged results at 500eV for all elements:
```
%block species_pot
QC5
%endblock species_pot
```


For properties that require norm-conserving pseudopotentials, you can select CASTEP's latest OTFG norm-conserving set with the following in the
in your <seed>.cell file.
```
%block species_pot
NCP
%endblock species_pot
```
For backwards compatibility you can also select pseudopotentials from earlier versions on the on-the-fly database, e.g. use
```
%block species_pot
C17
%endblock species_pot
```
to select the ultrasoft pseudopotentials from CASTEP version 17. You can also specify the pseudopotential on a per-element basis, e.g.
```
%block species_pot
Fe  C17
 O  NCP
Ba  QC5
%endblock species_pot
```

A complete list of the availible OTFG definitions follows:

String | Description
----- | --------
NCP     | Alias for the most recent set of norm conserving potentials
QC5  | High through put set (delta=1.7meV, 0.8meV excluding N,O,Cr,Mn)
HARD | "Ultimate" set of HARD pseudopotentials
C7      |  USP definitions as of CASTEP 7.0 (C7)
C8      |  USP definitions as of CASTEP 8.0 (C8)
C9      | USP  definitions as of CASTEP 9.0/16.0 delta=0.5meV
NCP9  |  Set of Norm Conserving pseudopotentials CASTEP 9.0/16.0 (NCP9)(delta=1.1meV)
C17    |  USP definitions, CASTEP 17.0 (C17)
NCP17 | Set of Norm Conserving pseudopotentials CASTEP 17.0 (NCP17)
C18     |  USP definitions, CASTEP 18.0 (C18)
NCP18 |  Norm Conserving pseudopotentials CASTEP 18.0 (NCP18)
C19     |  USP definitions, CASTEP 19.0 (C19) delta=0.442 meV (default for CASTEPv19 up to and including CASTEPv24) [@delta2016]
NCP19 |  Norm Conserving pseudopotentials CASTEP 19.0 (NCP19) delta=1.098 meV
C19mk2 | USP definitions. Updated Lanthanide and Actinide definitions, but otherwise identical to C19. Default for CASTEPv25 and later [@Huber2021]



##Pseudopotential files

CASTEP can also read in pseudopotentials from files

Format | Origin
------|-----
.usp     | as generated by CASTEP (note both USP and NCP use this format)
.uspso | as generated by CASTEP, with spin-orbit coupling
.recpot | as generated by OPIUM (also legacy CASTEP files)
.UPF     | as generated by Quantum Espresso

Note that properties using PAW augmentation will not be available when using file based pseudopotentials (OTFG is required) - this includes all NMR/EPR properties and EELS spectra.
